id	context-1	context-2	option-1	option-2	option-3	option-4	option-5	option-6	option-7	option-8	option-9	option-10	option-11	option-12	option-13	option-14	option-15	option-16
subTitle	The emissions context	The emissions context	Energy efficiency	Energy efficiency	Energy efficiency	Energy efficiency	Energy efficiency	Generating on-site	Energy storage	Generating nearby	Generating nearby	Generating nearby	Generating on-site	Generating nearby & storage	Energy sharing	Fuel switching	Importing or purchasing	Generating nearby
mainTitle	Energy use in Hepburn Shire	Electricity baseline for Hepburn Shire	Domestic Hot Water	Lighting	Appliances	Heating and Cooling	Building fabric upgrades	Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Panels	Battery Storage	Mid to Large-scale Solar PV	Wind turbines	Bioenergy	Micro Hydroelectric	Pumped-storage Hydroelectric	Community Microgrids & VPPs	Electric Vehicles	Renewable energy	Concentrated Solar Thermal
contribution-translation			0	0	0	0	-10	0	-10	0	0	-50	-20	-15	-15	0	-10	0
contribution-pctTranslation			680	660	660	680	685	686	-150	710	710	-150	-150	-50	-50	705	705	705
contribution-topline			up to	Up to	Up to	Up to	Up to	Up to	Improves the	More than	More than	Only limited by	Limited	Improves	Improves	Up to		More than
contribution-headline-large			18	7	7	15	50	40		100	100					100	100	100
contribution-headline-small-1									case for			biomass	by resource	case for	case for			
contribution-headline-small-2									local solar			availability and	and site	renewable	renewable			
contribution-headline-small-3									and wind			generator size	availabilty	technologies	technologies			
contribution-baseline-1			of electricity	of electricity	of electricity	of electricity	"of electricity,"	of electricity		of electricity	of electricity					of transport	of all energy	of electricity
contribution-baseline-2						gas and wood	gas and wood			demand	demand					emissions		demand
technology			"Hot water is typically the second largest user for residential energy in Victoria after space heating. Hot water systems can be powered from solar, gas, electricity, wood and now even heat pumps (which use the same technology as reverse cycle air conditioners). Replacing electric, gas and wood systems with more efficient water heaters or running existing electric systems from solar PV during the day can offer significant energy and/or carbon savings."	"Lighting upgrades can play a significant role in reducing energy use, particularly for non-residential uses. Highly efficient LED lights for example use approximately one-fifth the energy of a halogen downlight."	"Older appliances (e.g. televisions and fridges) and IT equipment (e.g. computers) can consume a substantial amount of power. Fortunately there has been significant progress in improving both their efficiency and the information available to consumers to assist with better product selection. Many appliances include an energy star rating which makes it easy for consumers to choose a more efficient product. Where on-site solar exists, some whitegoods can be programmed to run during the day to take advantage of solar generation (e.g. dishwashers, dryers and washing machines)."	"Heating and cooling provides buildings with controlled internal temperatures: this typically consumes by far the most energy in a building, often more than lighting and general appliances combined. Heating uses a variety of sources: electricity, gas and wood; while most residential cooling is achieved through electric air conditioning."	"Improving the 'thermal fabric' of buildings (the walls, roofs and floors) can be an effective way of limiting the heating and cooling required to keep indoor spaces comfortable. Key measures include: insulating walls, ceilings and floors, double glazing and shading windows, and draught proofing. The key measurement for residential thermal performance is heating and cooling demand, which in Australia is generally measured in a star rating of up to 10 stars (with the minimum for a new dwelling at 6 stars). The average of existing dwellings in Victoria is less than 2 Stars!"	"Solar electricity, also known as solar photovoltaic (PV) electricity, is generated by directly converting sunlight into electricity using solar panels."	"Batteries allow electricity from the grid or electricity generated on-site (solar or wind) to be stored and used either as back up, or to 'smooth out' the variable supply from renewable energy (i.e. when the sun isn't out and wind dies down). Batteries have traditionally been used 'off-grid' however declining system costs are driving their introduction to grid connected households and businesses, either as standalone devices or in combination with solar PV. Batteries can also be used at a community and distribution network level to store electricity for managing variable renewables supply, improve reliability and to reduce network upgrade requirements."	"Solar electricity, also known as solar photovoltaic (PV) electricity, is generated by converting sunlight directly into electricity. Large or ""utility"" scale solar PV uses the same technology as rooftop solar panels. Utility scale solar PV is suited to country locations with low population density but with close proximity to appropriate grid connections."	"Wind power captures the energy of the wind by turning the blades of a wind turbine, which drives a generator that in turn produces electricity. Wind power is one of the fastest growing and most cost-effective renewable energy sources, and has grown at an average rate of 16% p.a. in capacity globally over the last decade (2008-2017, Global Wind Energy Council). There are almost 100 wind farms in Australia to date."	"Energy generation from biomass uses the burning of organic matter (e.g. crop waste) to produce heat energy at all scales (e.g. firewood is a type of biomass). At large (commercial) scale biomass is burnt to produce either heat to supply district heating or to produce steam for power generation. The creation of biogas (from the breaking down of biomass) is undertaken either actively in a biodigester, or passively by capturing ÔwasteÕ biogas from landfill sites or from the treatment of sewage."	"Micro hydro systems are generally around 5-100kW in scale. They can provide power to a home, community or feed into the grid. Micro hydro systems work by diverting the inflow of water from a river, stream or waterfall, the intake will have a grate to protect fish and debris. It will then be tunneled to a powerhouse that has a turbine that turns a generator, creating electricity."	"Pumped-storage Hydroelectric (PSH) has been around since the 1890s and in its current reversible form since the 1930s. It has been widely deployed all around the globe and is currently experiencing a renaissance as a solution to base-load power now that coal fired generators are being shut down. PSH pumps water from a lower to a higher elevation reservoir, it stores the potential energy of the water until there is electrical demand, then discharges it through turbines which produces electricity."	"Community microgrids utilise local resources to meet local demand. They enable high local penetration and sharing of technologies such as solar, wind, hydro, storage, combined heat and power and demand response. Microgrids also reduce losses in the elec- tricity network. A Virtual Power Plant (VPP) is a similar concept that is less constrained by geography. VPPs use internet technologies to aggregate consumption and production from multiple households and businesses: this allows distributed energy resources (DERs) like solar, batteries and 'flexible' loads to participate in markets for energy generation and grid support services."	"Electric vehicles (EVs) use electric motors to drive their wheels. Electricity is either stored in batteries in the vehicle (e.g. Li-Ion batteries like in your phone), or generated by a secondary motor powered by petrol or diesel (i.e. a hybrid-electric vehicle). Battery powered EVs and 'plug-in' hybrids can be charged using (high capacity) home charging units or at public charge stations. Similar vehicle electrification trends are happening in commercial and public transport. Importantly, the replacement of vehicles with electric versions increases overall electricity demand, meaning that EVs are a way to 'switch' from fossil fuels to renewable (electricity)."	"Many renewable energy sources already exist in Australia. Achieving zero net energy for Hepburn under this option involves the purchase of energy from existing renewable sources. Renewable electricity is usually accredited through the government's GreenPower Program, it can be purchased through a purchase agreement directly with a renewable energy supplier, choosing GreenPower from an energy retailer or using an offset product such as Hepburn Wind's Community Green. Options to purchase renewable bottled gas (e.g. biogas) and sustainably sourced wood are also possible."	"Concentrated solar thermal (CST) technology uses the heat of the sun rather than light, to generate electricity. It uses lenses and reflectors to concentrate sunlight, which then heats water, oil (or another fluid) to produce steam to drive a turbine that produces electricity. CST plants are usually paired with storage technology (e.g. molten salt) which stores heat to allow electricity to be generated when sunlight is not available."
opportunity			"More than 50% of households in Hepburn Shire have electric storage hot water systems, and a further 30% run from gas or wood. These are a very inefficient way of heating hot water and a large contributor to household energy use. Powering the electric systems from solar PV or replacing any of these with a heat pump hot water unit offers significant savings. Saving from heat pump: 70-80% less energy Total household saving: 18%"	Lighting makes up around 10% of Australia's energy consumption. The relatively recent use of halogen downlights in some households means that the proportion of energy used for lighting in these homes is even higher. 50% of all lamps are incandescent or halogen types which are obvious targets for replacement. Replacing halogen with high quality efficient LED alternatives can save 80% of the energy used in lighting. Potential energy saving from replacing halogen with LED: - Household energy: 7% of total electricity - Commercial lighting: 30% of total electricity	"Older electrical appliances can account for the largest proportion of household consumption (up to 35%). Older appliances (such as fridges) generally draw higher operating and standby power and are particularly good targets for upgrades. Measures such as Minimum Energy Performance Standards (MEPS) and Energy Labelling, help to guide improvement in energy efficient appliances. Best available appliances compared to average: 10% saving in total energy MEPS program impact (over ten years): 60-80% less energy Electricity consumption feedback/monitoring: 4 to 12% saving"	"Energy used for space heating throughout most of Victoria, and Hepburn specifically, is high. Of total heating/cooling energy, often somewhere between 80-90% is typically associated with heating. The availability of timber means a high proportion of space heating in Hepburn uses wood (58% of households) with an average 3.5 tonnes burnt annually per home. Many homes will have reverse cycle air conditioning however the use of these for heating is often quite low. The best options for space heating are efficient pelletised wood heaters or reverse cycle (heat pump) air-conditioners. Heating | replace panel heater or old gas heater with reverse cycle AC: 80% of heating energy Cooling | replacing an old AC unit: 50% of cooling energy"	"Most houses built before the year 2000 have limited or no insulation. Houses without insulation have poor thermal performance. Draughts and large glazed areas are also factors in poor thermal performance. An average house without insulation can be improved by 2 to 3 stars with insulation and some other basic efficiency measures. This equates to a 50% energy saving for space conditioning. Potential energy savings of upgrades a base (1.4 star) home: + Roof insulation to R4 (3.5 star): 50% energy saving + Wall and subfloor insulation (5.5 star): 70% energy saving + Draught proofing, shading and double glazing (7 star): 80% energy saving"	"Hepburn has excellent climatic conditions for solar. The total rooftop solar capacity in Hepburn is estimated to be nearly 6 MegaWatts (the equivalent of 1,250 large household systems of 4kW each), based on an available rooftop area of 82,000 sqm. Using all of this roof space could meet about 40% of Hepburn's total annual electricity demand."	"Should some form of community micro-grid or virtual power plant be possible in the future, medium scale storage options may be attractive to store and supply power locally. At a household level, storage enables high utilisation (e.g. 80-90%) of on-site solar generation with the grid being used as a back up during low generation periods (e.g. winter). Substations and power lines around the Hepburn Shire are not currently constrained and should be able to accommodate a reasonable increase in the solar PV across Hepburn. The introduction of battery storage on the low voltage side of the substation reduces the impact of high penetrations of solar PV and may avoid the need for punative solar export limiting or even refusal."	"Hepburn has a medium solar exposure and plenty of available land for utility scale solar. This availability of land - which account for land uses, elevations, and population data - is what will theortically limit the total solar farm capacity in the Hepburn Shire area. A single large scale 60MW solar farm (i.e. the size of the Gannawara solar farm in north west Victoria), would generate about 110 GWh per annum - enough to meet over 140% of the Shire's electricity demand."	"The total wind resource in the region is high. Accounting for appropriate land uses, elevations, and population data, the wind farm capacity in the Hepburn area has been estimated at 1,500MW. Hepburn lies on tablelands with a reasonable to good wind resource and predominantly grazing farmland that is suited for wind turbines. The wind is already being harvested by Hepburn Wind's two community-owned turbines at Leonards Hill, generating enough power for 2000 homes at around 11,000MWh per annum. Total capacity: 1,500MW Annual generation: 3,500 GWh This potential generation is far beyond Hepburn's needs!"	"Productive land in the Hepburn Shire is primarily pasture land for grazing. Crop stubble is minimal. Forestry activity and saw milling occur in neighbouring shires, but not within the Hepburn Shire. Fallen hardwood is available as resource in the area, but this is currently used for space heating (a high percentage of households use wood heating). The Shire's waste is a reasonable source of biogas. Council is developing a pilot project, with views to expand to a 65kW system which delivers 252 MWh of electricity into the grid per annum and a 257MWh heating load."	"Hepburn Shire doesn't have the natural resources for mid- large scale hydroelecric power (which is an economic source of renewable electricity generation). However Daylesford has a history with one of the oldest micro hydro stations being located at Lake Daylesford that operated early last century, powering lights and buildings around the iconic lake, generating around 12kW. Local groups are currently looking at how to preserve the site and potentially get it up and operating again. There could be other existing small sites located around the shire. A minimum drop of around 60cm for the pipe, stream or waterfall is necessary to be viable."	"PSH is an important technology for load balancing of the grid as more 'intermittent' renewable energy is added (such as solar and wind). Systems can be developed utilising lakes, reservoirs, disused mines, irrigation systems, sewerage systems and drinking water infrastructure. However economies of scale mean that currently only mid to large scale projects are generally viable, these can be coupled with solar and wind installations. A recent study looking for pairs of dams with an altitudinal difference of more than 250m identified 22,000 potential PSH sites in Australia. Although the list is not exhaustive, there were no viable sites identified in the Hepburn Shire."	"Community microgrids and VPPs help participants use distributed energy resources like solar and batteries more effectively. This ability to share resources improves the return on investment and penetration of renewables. In theory, VPPs (and microgrids) that are connected to the wider electricity network generate additional revenue by participating in energy markets and providing grid support. However at present, this technology is in its infancy. The business case for community microgrids and VPPs relies on participation (i.e combined size of DERs), and is enhanced in areas where the grid is 'constrained' and able to benefit from grid support services. At present, Hepburn's network has reasonable capacity, but grid reliability could be enhanced."	"Australia has been slow to embrace EVs - partly due to model availability, current premium costs and concerns about vehicle range and charging infrastructure - however EV sales are forecast to be over 50% of light vehicles sales within 20 years. Recent modelling suggests that the replacement of all internal combustion engines with battery EVs in Australia would increase total electricity demand by around 26%. For Hepburn, the electrification of transport is an opportunity to target around 50% of energy demand and 33% of total emissions."	"The electricity we purchase can be 100% renewable if every business, household and institution in Hepburn chose to purchase 100% GreenPower through their electricity retailer, or through a group purchase of renewable energy through the local electricity supply. If community members want their electricity to be generated within Hepburn or nearby to Hepburn rather than being sourced from a commercial renewable energy generator with a grid connection to Hepburn. Hepburn Wind has an electricity product available. Sourcing bottled biogas and sustainable wood would also contribute to Hepburn meeting the zero net energy target."	"CST requires direct solar beam radiation. And while the solar resource in Hepburn is very good, it is not as high as areas further north in Australia. This makes Hepburn a less attractive as a 'pilot' site for deploying CST, which would be emerging generation technology in Australia. Similar to mid-large scale solar PV and wind, the potential capacity for CST is only limited by suitable available land area - which is very good in Hepburn Shire. At present, operational CST plants around the world are sized between 50MW and 400 MW - the smallest of which would generate enough electricity to meet the Shire's current demand."
desirability-rating			3	2	3	2	2	3	3	3	2	2	3	2	2	3	1	2
feasibility-rating			2	3	3	3	2	2	2	3	2	2	1	0	1	2	2	1
viability-rating			2	3	2	2	2	2	2	2	3	2	1	2	1	1	2	1
drawing			draw-hotWater	draw-lighting	draw-appliances	draw-hvac	draw-thermal	draw-solarPV	draw-batteries	draw-solarUtility	draw-wind	draw-bioenergy	draw-microHydroHep	draw-pumpedHydro	draw-microgrid	draw-ev	draw-renewables	draw-CST
tech-line-01			Hot water is typically the second largest user for residential	Lighting upgrades can play a	Older appliances (e.g. televisions and fridges) and IT equipment	Heating and cooling provides buildings with controlled internal	"Improving the 'thermal fabric' of buildings (the walls, roofs and"	"Solar electricity, also known as"	Batteries allow electricity from the grid or	"Solar electricity, also known as solar photovoltaic"	Wind power captures the energy of the wind	Energy generation from biomass uses the burning of organic	Micro hydro systems are generally around 5-100kW in scale.	Pumped-storage Hydroelectric (PSH) has been around since	Community microgrids utilise local resources to meet local demand.	Electric vehicles (EVs) use electric motors to drive their wheels.	Many renewable energy sources	Concentrated solar thermal (CST) technology uses the heat of the
tech-line-02			energy in Victoria after space heating. Hot water systems	significant role in reducing energy	(e.g. computers) can consume a substantial amount of power.	temperatures: this typically consumes by far the most energy	floors) can be an effective way of limiting the heating and	"solar photovoltaic (PV) electricity,"	electricity generated on-site (solar or wind) to be	"(PV) electricity, is generated by converting"	"by turning the blades of a wind turbine, which"	matter (e.g. crop waste) to produce heat energy at all scales	"They can provide power to a home,"	the 1890s and in its current reversible form since the	They enable high local penetration and sharing of technologies	Electricity is either stored in batteries in the vehicle (e.g. Li-Ion	already exist in Australia. Achieving	"sun rather than light, to generate electricity. It uses lenses and"
tech-line-03			"can be powered from solar, gas, electricity, wood"	"use, particularly for non-residential"	Fortunately there has been significant progress in improving both	"in a building, often more than lighting and general appliances"	cooling required to keep indoor spaces comfortable.	is generated by directly	"stored and used either as back up, or to 'smooth"	sunlight directly into electricity.	drives a generator that in turn produces	(e.g. firewood is a type of biomass). At large (commercial)	community or feed into the grid.	1930s. It has been widely deployed all around	"such as solar, wind, hydro, storage, combined heat and power"	"batteries like in your phone), or generated by a secondary motor"	zero net energy for Hepburn under	"reflectors to concentrate sunlight, which then heats water, oil"
tech-line-04			and now even heat pumps (which use the	uses. Highly efficient LED lights	their efficiency and the information available to consumers to	"combined. Heating uses a variety of sources: electricity, gas and"	"Key measures include: insulating walls,"	converting sunlight into	out' the variable supply from renewable energy	"Large or ""utility"" scale"	electricity. Wind power is one of the fastest	scale biomass is burnt to produce either heat to supply district	Micro hydro systems work by	the globe and is currently experiencing a	and demand response. Microgrids also reduce losses in the elec-	powered by petrol or diesel (i.e. a hybrid-electric vehicle). Battery	this option involves the purchase	(or another fluid) to produce steam
tech-line-05			same technology as reverse cycle air	for example use approximately	assist with better product selection. Many appliances include an	wood; while most residential cooling is achieved through	"ceilings and floors, double glazing and"	electricity using solar	(i.e. when the sun isn't out and wind dies down).	solar PV uses the	growing and most cost-effective renewable	heating or to produce steam for power generation.	diverting the inflow of water	renaissance as a solution to base-load power	tricity network. A Virtual Power Plant (VPP) is a similar concept	powered EVs and 'plug-in' hybrids can be charged using (high	of energy from existing renewable	to drive a turbine that
tech-line-06			"conditioners). Replacing electric,"	one-fifth the energy of a halogen	energy star rating which makes it easy for consumers to choose	electric air conditioning.	"shading windows, and draught proofing."	panels.	Batteries have traditionally been used 'off-grid'	same technology as	"energy sources, and has grown at"	The creation of biogas (from the	"from a river, stream or"	now that coal fired generators are being shut	that is less constrained by geography. VPPs use	capacity) home charging units or at public charge stations.	sources. Renewable electricity is usually	produces electricity.
tech-line-07			gas and wood systems with more	downlight.	"a more efficient product. Where on-site solar exists, some"		The key measurement for residential		however declining system costs are driving	rooftop solar panels.	an average rate of 16% p.a. in capacity	breaking down of biomass) is	"waterfall, the intake will have"	down. PSH pumps water from a lower to a	internet technologies to aggregate consumption	Similar vehicle electrification trends are happening in	accredited through the government's	CST plants are
tech-line-08			efficient water heaters or running		whitegoods can be		thermal performance is heating and		"their introduction to grid connected households and businesses,"	Utility scale solar PV	"globally over the last decade (2008-2017,"	undertaken either actively	a grate to protect fish and debris.	"higher elevation reservoir, it stores"	and production from multiple households	commercial and public transport.	"GreenPower Program, it can be purchased through a purchase"	usually paired with
tech-line-09			existing electric systems from		programmed to run		"cooling demand, which in Australia"		either as standalone devices or in combination with solar PV.	is suited to country	Global Wind Energy Council).	"in a biodigester, or passively"	It will then be tunneled to	the potential energy of the water until	and businesses: this allows distributed	"Importantly, the replacement of vehicles with electric"	"agreement directly with a renewable energy supplier, choosing"	storage technology
tech-line-10			solar PV during the day can offer		during the day to		is generally measured in a star			locations with low		by capturing ÔwasteÕ biogas	a powerhouse that has	"there is electrical demand, then"	energy resources (DERs) like	"versions increases overall electricity demand, meaning"	GreenPower from an energy retailer or using an offset product	(e.g. molten salt)
tech-line-11			significant energy and/or carbon		take advantage of		rating of up to 10 stars (with the		Batteries can also be used at a community and distribution	population density but	There are almost 100 wind farms in Australia	from landfill sites or from the	a turbine that turns a	discharges it through turbines	"solar, batteries and 'flexible'"	that EVs are a way to 'switch'	such as Hepburn Wind's Community Green. Options to purchase	which stores heat
tech-line-12			savings.		solar generation		minimum for a new dwelling at		network level to store electricity for managing variable	with close proximity to	to date.	treatment of sewage.	"generator, creating"	which produces electricity.	loads to participate in markets	from fossil fuels to	renewable bottled gas (e.g. biogas) and sustainably sourced wood	to allow electricity to
tech-line-13					"(e.g. dishwashers, dryers"		6 stars). The average of existing		"renewables supply, improve reliability and to reduce network"	appropriate grid connections.			electricity.		for energy generation and	renewable (electricity).	are also possible.	be generated when
tech-line-14					and washing machines).		dwellings in Victoria is less than 2 Stars!		upgrade requirements.						grid support services.			sunlight is not available.
opp-line-01			More than 50% of households in Hepburn Shire have electric	Lighting makes up around 10% of Australia's energy	Older electrical appliances can account for the largest	"Energy used for space heating throughout most of Victoria,"	Most houses built before the year 2000 have limited or no	Hepburn has excellent climatic conditions for solar. The total	Should some form of community micro-grid or virtual power	Hepburn has a medium solar exposure and plenty of available	The total wind resource in the region is high. Accounting for	Productive land in the Hepburn Shire is primarily pasture	Hepburn Shire doesn't have the natural resources for mid-	PSH is an important technology for load balancing of the	Community microgrids and VPPs help participants use	Australia has been slow to embrace EVs - partly due to	The electricity we purchase can be 100% renewable	CST requires direct solar beam radiation. And while the solar
opp-line-02			"storage hot water systems, and a further 30% run from gas"	consumption. The relatively recent use of halogen downlights	proportion of household consumption (up to 35%). Older	"and Hepburn specifically, is high. Of total heating/cooling"	insulation. Houses without insulation have poor thermal	rooftop solar capacity in Hepburn is estimated to be nearly	"plant be possible in the future, medium scale storage options"	land for utility scale solar. This availability of land - which	"appropriate land uses, elevations, and population data, the wind"	land for grazing. Crop stubble is minimal. Forestry activity	large scale hydroelecric power (which is an economic source	grid as more 'intermittent' renewable energy is added (such	distributed energy resources like solar and batteries more	"model availability, current premium costs and concerns about"	"if every business, household and institution in Hepburn"	"resource in Hepburn is very good, it is not as high as areas"
opp-line-03			or wood. These are a very inefficient way of heating hot	in some households means that the proportion of energy used	appliances (such as fridges) generally draw higher operating	"energy, often somewhere between 80-90% is typically"	performance. Draughts and large glazed areas are also	"6 MegaWatts (the equivalent of 1,250 large household"	may be attractive to store and supply power locally. At a	"account for land uses, elevations, and population data -"	farm capacity in the Hepburn area has been estimated at	"and saw milling occur in neighbouring shires, but not within"	of renewable electricity generation). However Daylesford has	as solar and wind). Systems can be developed utilising	effectively. This ability to share resources improves the return	vehicle range and charging infrastructure - however EV sales	chose to purchase 100% GreenPower through their	further north in Australia. This makes Hepburn a less
opp-line-04			water and a large contributor to household energy use.	for lighting in these homes is even higher. 50% of all lamps are	and standby power and are particularly good targets for	associated with heating. The availability of timber means a	factors in poor thermal performance. An average house	"systems of 4kW each), based on an available rooftop area"	"household level, storage enables high utilisation (e.g. 80-90%) of"	is what will theortically limit the total solar farm capacity in	"1,500MW. Hepburn lies on tablelands with a reasonable to"	the Hepburn Shire. Fallen hardwood is available as	a history with one of the oldest micro hydro stations being	"lakes, reservoirs, disused mines, irrigation systems,"	"on investment and penetration of renewables. In theory, VPPs"	are forecast to be over 50% of light vehicles sales within 20	"electricity retailer, or through a group purchase of"	"attractive as a 'pilot' site for deploying CST, which would be"
opp-line-05			Powering the electric systems from solar PV or replacing any	incandescent or halogen types which are obvious targets for	upgrades. Measures such as Minimum Energy Performance	high proportion of space heating in Hepburn uses wood (58%	without insulation can be improved by 2 to 3 stars with	"of 82,000 sqm. Using all of this roof space could meet about"	on-site solar generation with the grid being used as a back up	the Hepburn Shire area.	good wind resource and predominantly grazing farmland	"resource in the area, but this is currently used for space"	"located at Lake Daylesford that operated early last century,"	sewerage systems and drinking water infrastructure.	(and microgrids) that are connected to the wider electricity	years. Recent modelling suggests that the replacement of	renewable energy through the local electricity supply.	emerging generation technology in Australia.
opp-line-06			of these with a heat pump hot water unit offers significant	replacement. Replacing halogen with high quality efficient LED	"Standards (MEPS) and Energy Labelling, help to guide"	of households) with an average 3.5 tonnes burnt annually	insulation and some other basic efficiency measures.	40% of Hepburn's total annual electricity demand.	during low generation periods (e.g. winter).		that is suited for wind turbines. The wind is already being	heating (a high percentage of households use wood	"powering lights and buildings around the iconic lake,"	However economies of scale mean that currently only mid to	network generate additional revenue by participating in	all internal combustion engines with battery EVs in Australia		
opp-line-07			savings.	alternatives can save 80% of the energy used in lighting.	improvement in energy efficient appliances.	per home. Many homes will have reverse cycle air conditioning	This equates to a 50% energy saving for space conditioning.			A single large scale 60MW solar farm (i.e. the size of	harvested by Hepburn Wind's two community-owned turbines	heating). The Shire's waste is a reasonable source of	generating around 12kW. Local groups are currently looking	"large scale projects are generally viable, these can be coupled"	energy markets and providing grid support. However at	would increase total electricity demand by around 26%.	If community members want their electricity to be	"Similar to mid-large scale solar PV and wind, the potential"
opp-line-08						however the use of these for heating is often quite low. The			Substations and power lines around the Hepburn Shire are not	"the Gannawara solar farm in north west Victoria), would"	"at Leonards Hill, generating enough power for 2000 homes"	biogas.	at how to preserve the site and potentially get it up and	with solar and wind installations.	"present, this technology is in its infancy."		generated within Hepburn or nearby to Hepburn rather	capacity for CST is only limited by suitable available land
opp-line-09			Saving from heat pump: 70-80% less energy	Potential energy saving from replacing halogen with LED:	Best available appliances	best options for space heating are efficient pelletised wood	Potential energy savings of upgrades a base (1.4 star) home:		currently constrained and should be able to accommodate a	generate about 110 GWh per annum - enough to meet	"at around 11,000MWh per annum."		operating again.			"For Hepburn, the electrification of transport is an opportunity"	than being sourced from a commercial renewable energy	"area - which is very good in Hepburn Shire. At present,"
opp-line-10			Total household saving: 18%	- Household energy: 7% of total electricity	compared to average: 10% saving in total energy	heaters or reverse cycle (heat pump) air-conditioners.	+ Roof insulation to R4 (3.5 star): 50% energy saving		reasonable increase in the solar PV across Hepburn. The	over 140% of the Shire's electricity demand.		"Council is developing a pilot project, with views to expand"		A recent study looking for pairs of dams with an altitudinal	The business case for community microgrids and VPPs relies	to target around 50% of energy demand and 33% of total	generator with a grid connection to Hepburn. Hepburn	operational CST plants around the world are sized between
opp-line-11				- Commercial lighting: 30% of total electricity	MEPS program impact		+ Wall and subfloor insulation (5.5 star): 70% energy saving		introduction of battery storage on the low voltage side of the		"Total capacity: 1,500MW"	to a 65kW system which delivers 252 MWh of electricity	There could be other existing small sites located around the	"difference of more than 250m identified 22,000 potential PSH"	"on participation (i.e combined size of DERs), and is enhanced"	emissions.	Wind has an electricity product available.	50MW and 400 MW - the smallest of which would generate
opp-line-12					(over ten years): 60-80% less energy	Heating | replace panel heater or old	#NAME?		substation reduces the impact of high penetrations of solar		"Annual generation: 3,500 GWh"	into the grid per annum and a 257MWh heating load.	"shire. A minimum drop of around 60cm for the pipe, stream"	"sites in Australia. Although the list is not exhaustive, there"	in areas where the grid is 'constrained' and able to benefit			enough electricity to meet the Shire's current demand.
opp-line-13					Electricity consumption	gas heater with reverse cycle AC: 80% of heating energy	double glazing (7 star): 80% energy saving		PV and may avoid the need for punative solar export limiting				or waterfall is necessary to be viable.	were no viable sites identified in the Hepburn Shire.	"from grid support services. At present, Hepburn's network has"		Sourcing bottled biogas and sustainable wood would also	
opp-line-14					feedback/monitoring: 4 to 12% saving	Cooling | replacing an old AC unit: 50% of cooling energy			or even refusal.		This potential generation is far beyond Hepburn's needs!				"reasonable capacity, but grid reliability could be enhanced."		contribute to Hepburn meeting the zero net energy target.	
des-line-01			> Heat pumps are a simple measure to	> Simple and effective energy saving.	> MEPS and Energy Labelling are already	> Traditional wood heaters might be	> Low hanging fruit like draught	> The solar PV industry is well established.	> For some members of the community	> Solar PV is a low cost and well	> Community acceptance of wind farms can	> Bioenergy is generally positively	> Very positive public perception	> Positive public perception	> Allows energy resources like solar and	> Consumer sentiment towards electric	> Importing renewable energy does not	> Positive public perception.
des-line-02			undertake.	> Easy to communicate.	driving savings.	preferred to electric appliances.	proofing and most insulation achieves	> Very positive community perception	the ability to become totally self-	established industry.	be greatly enhanced if the benefits of the	perceived.	> Opportunity to preserve local	> Can add more value to existing	batteries to be shared locally and/or	vehicles is very positive	provide local social and economic benefit.	> Would identify Hepburn as a leader in
des-line-03			> Bulk buy schemes could help further	> Often individual household savings	> Choosing efficient appliances targets		large savings at low cost and effort.	and acceptance.	sufficient from the grid is desirable.	"> High positive perception, however"	energy generated are distributed locally	> Bioenergy is not a well established	heritage	infrastructure	to the wider energy market	> People are still concerned about	> May be more attractive as an interim	CST globally.
des-line-04			reduce cost.	are small even though they offer a	the largest source of household energy		> More intrusive measures become cost		> Strict recycling and disposal practices	current land use practices must be	> There is 'misinformation' about health	"industry in Australia, however has been"		> Complements utility scale wind	> Reduces overall energy cost by	vehicle range. The local charge station	option while local generation	> Investment in CST would benefit
des-line-05				good return on investment.	consumption.		prohibitive.		are required to avoid environmental	taken into account. For rich productive	effects that have falsely impacted the	well explored in Hepburn Shire		and solar by offering grid balancing	providing stability to the grid	infrastructure on Vincent Street helps	opportunities are being developed.	industry in Australia.
des-line-06					> New (efficient) appliances can have an				impacts.	"land such as in Hepburn, agricultural"	perception of wind.			services		ensure Daylesford can be a destination		
des-line-07					unpredictable impact on total energy use					solar is an option.	> Hepburn Wind is a successful community					for EVs!		
des-line-08					(e.g. a new appliance might be used more).						wind farm!							
des-line-09																		
fea-line-01			> Heat pumps perform adequately	> Bulb replacement programs have been	> Informational campaigns about energy	> Minimum Energy Performance	> It is relatively straightforward to	"> Rooftop solar, which is ""net-metered"" is"	> Lead acid batteries are already common	> Utility scale solar is highly feasible	> Well established technology.	> Relatively limited bioenergy resource in	> Established and simple technology	> Requires quite specific site and	> Requires coordination locally (i.e.	> EV technology is well established and	> No technical constraints for electricity.	> CST is technically feasible with
fea-line-02			down to minus 10 degrees C	successful in the past.	"labelling is low cost, simple to communicate"	Standards (MEPS) are already driving	insulate ceilings.	already highly feasible in Australia.	in off-grid applications and Lithium Ion	in Australia with a number of medium	> Integrates easily into grazing farmland	Hepburn Shire due to the scale of the	(low cost to assess potential sites)	existing infrastructure to be feasible	community grid operator) or through	being increasingly adopted by major car	> The production of biogas is not mature	examples operating in countries like
fea-line-03			> Heat pump energy consumption can be	> The Victorian Energy upgrades	and effective.	improvements in the efficiency of	> Insulation is more complex for walls	> High penetrations are technically	are becoming more common.	sized projects in operation.	with minimal footprint.	population.	> Relies on suitable sites being	> Requires more land than chemical	a technology provider (for a VPP)	manufacturers	in Australia.	"Spain, Germany and the United States,"
fea-line-04			time controlled to take advantage of solar	supports replacement of lamps.	> Trade in programs can also encourage	space conditioning appliances.	"and floors, but is still possible (e.g."	achievable but there may be constraints	> Australian company Redflow already	> There are potential capacity issues	> Needs to be located near transmission	> Municipal waste may offer the best local	available and close to the grid	and mechanical batteries (i.e. less	> The ability to trade energy locally	> Battery technology is improving (with		however this would be first of a kind
fea-line-05			PV generation if installed.		the removal of old appliances from		using spray foam).	to electricity networks as more systems	markets batteries for network level storage.	for the local electricity network when	infrastructure to be able to export energy	"source, which is being investigated by"	> Micro hydro is unlikely to impact	density')	is still a few years away	"alternative sources being developed,"		project in Australia.
fea-line-06					operation.		> Draught proofing is a 'no brainer'.	are connected.	> Actual feasibility depends on application.	connecting utility scale generation.	back into the electricity grid.	Council.	waterway flows and supported	> Suited to mid-large scale		e.g. hydrogen fuel cells)		
fea-line-07								> Solar energy is only generated during					wildlife	applications		> Uptake likely to be linked to		
fea-line-08								the day.								autonomous vehicles and car sharing		
fea-line-09																		
via-line-01			> A typical heat pump unit costs around	> LEDs are now cost competitive with	> About a 7% saving can be expected at	> A new air conditioning system (3kW) for	> Ceiling insulation costs around $5-10	> The generation cost is around 8 c/kWh	> Current costs for battery storage start at	> The cost of generation is around	> Wind turbines are the lowest cost	> Cost varies depending on technology	> Cost of generation expected to be	> Highly competitive economics for	> VPPs are still emerging and currently	> Electric vehicles are currently sold at a	> The retail price of GreenPower is	> The effective cost of electricity for large
via-line-02			$3500 (installed).	other lamps.	little to no cost.	a standard home costs around $1500.	per sqm	to 12 c/kWh.	"~ $1,000/kWh (fully installed)."	9c per kWh to 16c per kWh.	renewable energy with a generation	and type of biomass.	higher than other technologies and	for mid-large scale applications	only available in limited form	high premium over internal combustion	around 5 - 8c per kWh more than fossil	systems is around 30 to 40 c per kWh
via-line-03			"> Cheaper direct ""bolt-on"" heat pumps are"	> Paybacks depend on how many hours	> Replacement of old appliances is done		> Full retrofit of house from base to 5 star	> If the majority of power consumed	> Incremental cost of batteries with solar	> Declining cost of solar PV will	cost of between 5c per kWh and 11c	> The effective price varies from around	larger scale hydroelectric	compared with other utility battery	> Microgrids not likely to be a viable	engine vehicles	fuel energy.	but is expected to drop sharply to
via-line-04			also available.	per day a light is in use.	when they are due for retirement		"is possible and cost effective, however"	on-site during the daytime and little	"is still too high in Australia, but costs"	improve viability over time.	per kWh.	9c per kWh to 20c per kWh.		technologies	long term strategy	> Limited options vs current vehicles	> Group purchase of 100% renewable	(to around 10-20c per kWh) by 2020
via-line-05			> Heat pumps are still eligible for Small				retrofits beyond 5 star may not be	"or no electricity is exported, solar is"	are coming down quickly		> Wind farms are already			> Established technology	> Business case depends on the number	> Would benefit from the introduction of	energy could be price competitive with	> For smaller systems (below 30MW)
via-line-06			Technology Certificates (i.e. Renewable				possible (or economic)	already cost effective because any			generating energy for regional towns				of participants and (often) their location	policy on stricter vehicle emissions	existing household contracts.	the effective cost of electricity is even
via-line-07			"Energy Certificates or ""RECS"") from the"				> The average cost of double glazed glass	energy generated that is unused			in Australia like in Hepburn Shire				(vs capacity of the local network)			higher (up to 60c per kWh).
via-line-08			the Federal Government that reduces				"is around $15,000 per household."	on site is usually exported into the										
via-line-09			their cost.					electricity system at a lower price.										
context-subTitle	The emissions context	The emissions context																
context-mainTitle		Electricity baseline for Hepburn Shire																
context-desc-l01		Hepburn's emissions from electricity																
context-desc-l02		"amounts to 67,200 tonnes of carbon"																
context-desc-l03		emissions annually. Electricity is																
context-desc-l04		used for a range of daily business																
context-desc-l05		"and household needs such as lighting,"																
context-desc-l06		"heating, hot water,equipment and"																
context-desc-l07		appliances.																
context-desc-l08																		
context-desc-l09		We reduce 22% of electricity																
context-desc-l10		emissions through local generation																
context-desc-l11		of renewable energy from rooftop																
context-desc-l12		solar and Hepburn Wind.																
context-desc-l13																		
context-desc-l14																		
context-desc-l15																		
context-desc-l16																		
context-desc-l17																		
context-desc-l18																		
context-desc-l19																		
context-desc-l20																		
context-desc-l21																		
context-desc-l22																		
context-desc-l23																		
context-desc-l24																		
context-desc-l25		Population																
context-desc-l26		# households																
context-desc-l27		-------------------------------------------------------																
context-desc-l28		Electricity supplied by:																
context-desc-l29		#NAME?																
context-desc-l30		#NAME?																
context-desc-l31		#NAME?																
context-desc-l32		Total elec. consumed																
context-desc-l33		% Renewable electricity																
context-desc-l34		Net emissions																
context-desc-l35																		
context-desc-l36																		
context-desc-l37																		
context-desc-l38																		
context-desc-l39																		
elecChart-emissions-solar		"8,420"																
elecChart-emissions-wind		"12,485"																
elecChart-emissions-total		"70,715"																
elecChart-emissions-reductionPct		22.80%																
elecData-shire-population		"15,753"																
elecData-shire-households		"8,648"																
elecData-shire-solar		"7,260 MWh"																
elecData-shire-wind		"10,760 MWh"																
elecData-shire-grid		"60,960 MWh"																
elecData-shire-total		"78,980 MWh"																
elecData-shire-renewablePct		22.80%																
elec-data-shire-emissions		"70,715 tCO2-e"																
elecData-birch-population		"5,570"																
elecData-birch-households		"3,057"																
elecData-birch-pctSolar		16%																
elecData-birch-elecConsumed		"30,100 MWh"																
elecData-birch-solarGen		"1,415 MWh"																
elecData-birch-windGen		"10,760 MWh"																
elecData-cameron-population		"1,889"																
elecData-cameron-households		"1,037"																
elecData-cameron-pctSolar		21%																
elecData-cameron-elecConsumed		"8,860 MWh"																
elecData-cameron-solarGen		625 MWh																
elecData-coliban-population		"2,207"																
elecData-coliban-households		"1,157"																
elecData-coliban-pctSolar		23%																
elecData-coliban-elecConsumed		"9,500 MWh"																
elecData-coliban-solarGen		745 MWh																
elecData-creswick-population		"4,338"																
elecData-creswick-households		"2,381"																
elecData-creswick-pctSolar		21%																
elecData-creswick-elecConsumed		"18,290 MWh"																
elecData-creswick-solarGen		"1,140 MWh"																
elecData-holcombe-population		"1,850"																
elecData-holcombe-households		943																
elecData-holcombe-pctSolar		24%																
elecData-holcombe-elecConsumed		"5,850 MWh"																
elecData-holcombe-solarGen		690 MWh																
elec-sources-l00		Data sources																
elec-sources-l01		"Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), Powercor"																
elec-sources-l02		"and Hepburn Shire Council (Rates data), openNEM,"																
elec-sources-l03		Clean Energy Regulator																
elec-about-l00		About grid electricity																
elec-about-l01		Electricity from the grid that is generated outside Hepburn is																
elec-about-l02		"also partially supplied by renewable energy. In April 2018, this"																
elec-about-l03		totaled around 16% of Victoria's electricity generated																
elecMap-birch-renewablePct		35																
elecMap-clunes-renewablePct1		11																
elecMap-clunes-renewablePct2		9																
elecMap-coliban-renewablePct1		11																
elecMap-coliban-renewablePct2		5																
elecMap-creswick-renewablePct1		12																
elecMap-creswick-renewablePct2		5																
elecMap-holcombe-renewablePct		12																
context-energy-stationary-text-l01	About 37% of Hepburn's energy needs																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l02	come from 'stationary' energy sources																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l03	"that power our homes, businesses and"																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l04	infrastructure. A closer look at our																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l05	stationary energy mix is provided																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l06	below.																	
context-energy-stationary-text-l07																		
context-energy-stationary-text-l08																		
context-energy-transport-text-l01	Transport fuels power the vehicles we use to																	
context-energy-transport-text-l02	get around: they account for 63% of energy used by																	
context-energy-transport-text-l03	"Hepburn's residents, businesses and visitors. Petrol is the most"																	
context-energy-transport-text-l04	"used fuel type (56%), followed by aviation fuel (used by international"																	
context-energy-transport-text-l05	"and interstate visitors, 22%), diesel (19%) and LPG (3%). All of these"																	
context-energy-transport-text-l06	fuels produce greenhouse gases and air pollution.																	
context-energy-transport-text-l07																		
context-energy-transport-text-l08																		
context-energy-elec-amount	281 TJ (or 78.1 GWh)																	
context-energy-elec-text-l01	Electricity is used for a range of daily business and																	
context-energy-elec-text-l02	"household needs such as lighting, heating, hot water,"																	
context-energy-elec-text-l03	equipment and appliances. 22% of electricity comes 																	
context-energy-elec-text-l04	from local renewable sources: including the 25%																	
context-energy-elec-text-l05	of households with rooftop solar PV installed (8.1%																	
context-energy-elec-text-l06	"of consumption), and Hepburn Wind (13.8%)."																	
context-energy-elec-text-l07																		
context-energy-elec-text-l08																		
context-energy-elec-text-l09																		
context-energy-elec-text-l10																		
context-energy-wood-amount	259 TJ (16 kt of wood)																	
context-energy-wood-text-l01																		
context-energy-wood-text-l02																		
context-energy-wood-text-l03																		
context-energy-wood-text-l04																		
context-energy-wood-text-l05																		
context-energy-wood-text-l06	Neary 60% of households use																	
context-energy-wood-text-l07	"firewood for heating sourced,"																	
context-energy-wood-text-l08	which mostly comes from																	
context-energy-wood-text-l09	fallen timber on farming land.																	
context-energy-wood-text-l10																		
context-energy-wood-text-l11																		
context-energy-wood-text-l12																		
context-energy-wood-text-l13																		
context-energy-wood-text-l14																		
context-energy-wood-text-l15																		
context-energy-gas-amount	247 TJ																	
context-energy-gas-text-l01	Natural gas is used by households for																	
context-energy-gas-text-l02	cooking and heating both spaces																	
context-energy-gas-text-l03	and water. It is also used for																	
context-energy-gas-text-l04	industrial and commerical																	
context-energy-gas-text-l05	applications.																	
context-energy-gas-text-l06																		
context-energy-gas-text-l07	Most natural gas is piped directly																	
context-energy-gas-text-l08	to end users(90%) with the																	
context-energy-gas-text-l09	remaning consumed from																	
context-energy-gas-text-l10	bottled gas.																	
context-energy-gas-text-l11																		
context-energy-gas-text-l12																		
context-energy-gas-text-l13																		
context-energy-gas-text-l14																		
context-energy-gas-text-l15																		
energyChart-transportPct	63%																	
energyChart-stationaryPct	37%																	
energyChart-localPct	64%																	
energyChart-visitorPct	36%																	
energyChart-what-petrol	1190 PJ																	
energyChart-what-aviation	470 PJ																	
energyChart-what-diesel	400 PJ																	
energyChart-what-lpg	50 PJ																	
energyChart-what-gas	685 PJ																	
energyChart-what-gasSum	685																	
energyChart-what-elec	280 PJ																	
energyChart-what-wood	260 PJ																	
energyChart-who-local-transport	990 PJ																	
energyChart-who-local-resi	500 PJ																	
energyChart-who-local-industrial	450 PJ																	
energyChart-who-local-commercial	180 PJ																	
energyChart-who-local-agriculture	10 PJ																	
energyChart-who-visitor-transport	1110 PJ																	
energyChart-who-visitor-resi	90 PJ																	
energyChart-stationaryTotal	1230 PJ																	
energyChart-stationary-gasPct	54%																	
energyChart-stationary-gasBottledPct	gas 2%																	
energyChart-stationary-woodPct	23%																	
energyChart-stationary-elecPct	21%																	